# Part - 1


## Creating new Project

Run the following command to create new project.

```py
django-admin startproject polls
```

Project directory structure:

```bash
polls
|-- manage.py
`-- polls
    |-- __init__.py
    |-- asgi.py
    |-- settings.py
    |-- urls.py
    `-- wsgi.py
```

These files are:

- The outer **polls/** root directory is a container for your project. Its name doesn’t matter to Django; you can rename it to anything you like.
- **manage.py**: A command-line utility that lets you interact with this Django project in various ways.
- The inner **polls/** directory is the actual Python package for your project. Its name is the Python package name you’ll need to use to import anything inside it (e.g. mysite.urls).
- **polls/__init__.py**: An empty file that tells Python that this directory should be considered a Python package.
- **polls/settings.py**: Settings/configuration for this Django project. Django settings will tell you all about how settings work.
- **polls/urls.py**: The URL declarations for this Django project; a “table of contents” of your Django-powered site. You can read more about URLs in URL dispatcher.
- **mysite/asgi.py**: An entry-point for ASGI-compatible web servers to serve your project.
- **mysite/wsgi.py**: An entry-point for WSGI-compatible web servers to serve your project.


## The development server

Let’s verify your Django project works. Change into the outer mysite directory, if you haven’t already, and run the following commands:

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver
```

```bash
Watching for file changes with StatReloader
Performing system checks...

System check identified no issues (0 silenced).

You have 18 unapplied migration(s). Your project may not work properly until you apply the migrations for app(s): admin, auth, contenttypes, sessions.
Run 'python manage.py migrate' to apply them.
August 08, 2023 - 21:00:59
Django version 4.2, using settings 'polls.settings'
Starting development server at http://127.0.0.1:8000/
Quit the server with CONTROL-C.
```

Now that the server’s running, visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/ with your web browser. You’ll see a “Congratulations!” page, with a rocket taking off. It worked!

#### Changing the port 

By default, the runserver command starts the development server on the internal IP at port 8000.

If you want to change the server’s port, pass it as a command-line argument. For instance, this command starts the server on port 8080:

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver 8080
```

If you want to change the server’s IP, pass it along with the port. For example, to listen on all available public IPs (which is useful if you are running Vagrant or want to show off your work on other computers on the network), use:

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
```


## Creating the Polls app

```py
python manage.py startapp app
```



### Write your first view

In `polls/apps/views.py`

```py
from django.http import HttpResponse

def index(request):
    return HttpResponse("Hello everyone! you are at polls index.")
```

Create a new file in `app` folder, `urls.py`:

```py
from django.urls import path

from . import views

urlpatterns = [
    path("", views.index, name="index"),
]
```

Now go to project urls.py, `/polls/polls/urls.py`:

```py
from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import include, path

urlpatterns = [
    path("polls/", include("app.urls")),
    path("admin/", admin.site.urls),
]
```

### Run development server

Run the development server

```bash
$ python manage.py runserver
```

and visit `http://localhost:8000/polls`